Intranasal thermistor implantation

Following deep anesthesia (confirmed by absence of paw pinch reflex), the surgical area (extending from above the nasal bones to the bone overlying the cerebellum) is shaved and the area scrubbed gently with hibiclens and betadine, using a sterile cotton-tipped applicator. Prior to incision, lidocaine (30 uL 10% solution) is injected beneath the scalp at the incision site. An incision is made into the skin along the midline using a sterile scalpel blade, and the skin overlying the nose and the dorsomedial skull is removed. The incision extends from the nasal bone to the bone overlying the cerebellum. Connective tissue and periosteum on the skull are cleaned away by suction and scalpel. 

An intranasal thermistor is implanted (procedure adopted from McAfee et al. 2016). The thermistor will be sterilized in 3% hydrogen peroxide for 15 minutes before implantation (the device cannot be autoclaved). Using a dental drill with a sterile FG ¼ drill bit, a small hole is drilled in the anterior portion of the nasal bone, centered 0.5mm lateral from the midline suture. The edges of this hole can be lightly cauterized if desired (less than ½ second) to reduce future swelling using a standard surgical cauterizer. The probe is carefully inserted into this cavity with sterile forceps; partial insertion just under the nasal bone, without breaking through the epithelium, is sufficient for a quality signal and reduces the risk of damage to the nasal epithelium.
Sterile bone wax can be applied to the probe to protect the temperature sensitive element and seal the opening (I don't always do this). The probe connector and excess lead wire are fixed to the skull with a viscous gel super glue. This viscosity prevents seapage into thermistor hole and epithelium. Everything is embedded in dental cement or super glue with the probe connector adhered where convenient. During experimental recordings, the protruding connector is connected to a lead wire that reads the signal from the thermistor.
